# Chapter 4

# Nonlinear equations

# 4.1 Introduction

The pressure drop in a fluid in motion is examined. For a flow in a pipe with a circular cross section of diameter D (meter), the Reynolds number, Re , is given by

Re = Dv ν ,

in which v ( m / s ) is the average flow velocity and ν ( m 2 / s ) is the viscosity of the fluid. The flow is called laminar if Re < 2100 (low flow velocity) and turbulent if Re > 3000. For 2100 ≤ Re ≤ 3000, the flow is neither laminar nor turbulent.

For turbulent flows, the pressure drop between inflow and outflow is given by

P out -P in = ρ wLv 2 2 gD ,

in which w is a friction coefficient, ρ ( kg / m 3 ) is the fluid density, L ( m ) is the length and g ( m / s 2 ) is the acceleration of gravity. If the fluid contains particles (sand, paper fibers), then the friction coefficient w satisfies the equation

1 √ w = ln ( Re √ w ) + 14 -5.6 k k ,

in which k is a parameter known from experiments.

In this chapter, numerical methods will be discussed that can be used to determine w if the values of Re and k are known.

# 4.2 Definitions

In this chapter, various iterative methods will be considered to solve nonlinear equations of the form f ( p ) = 0. The point p is called a zero of the function f , or a root of the equation f ( x ) = 0. First, some useful definitions and concepts are introduced.

# Convergence

Each numerical method generates a sequence { pn } = p 0, p 1, p 2, . . . which should converge to p : lim n → ∞ pn = p . Assume that the sequence indeed converges, with pn = p for all n . If there exist positive constants λ and α satisfying

/negationslash

lim n → ∞ | p -pn + 1 | | p -pn | α = λ , (4.1)

