Note that the exact error equals

M -Q ( h ) = e -2.7525 . . . = -0.0342 . . . .

In this example the error estimate is very reliable.

To receive a better approximation the error estimate can be added to the approximation:

Q ( h ) + cph p = 2.7525 . . . -0.0348 . . . = 2.7177 . . . .

In the above example, the value of p was computed using Richardson's extrapolation. However, using Theorem 3.2.1, it is clear that p = 1, and this value could have been used immediately in equation (3.13b) in order to determine cph p . In practice, more complex situations are found, and the following complications may occur:

-It is not known whether higher-order derivatives exist and/or are bounded.

-The final result is a combination of various approximation methods. The influence of these approximations on p is not always clear.

-During implementation of the algorithm in a computer program, errors may be made.

To reveal any of these complications it is good practice to verify whether the calculated p is close to the p that follows from theory.

# 3.7.3 Formulae of higher accuracy from Richardson's extrapolation ∗

In several applications the value of p in (3.10) is known. In that case Richardson's extrapolation can be used to determine formulae of higher accuracy.

This is done by making use of the fact that the error estimates for Q ( h ) and Q ( 2 h ) equal

M -Q ( h ) = cph p + O ( h p + 1 ) , (3.15a)

M -Q ( 2 h ) = cp ( 2 h ) p + O ( h p + 1 ) . (3.15b)

Multiplying equation (3.15a) by 2 p and subtracting equation (3.15b) from this yields

2 p ( M -Q ( h )) -( M -Q ( 2 h )) = 2 p ( cph p ) -cp ( 2 h ) p + O ( h p + 1 ) ,

such that

( 2 p -1 ) M -2 p Q ( h ) + Q ( 2 h ) = O ( h p + 1 ) .

This means that

M = 2 p Q ( h ) -Q ( 2 h ) 2 p -1 + O ( h p + 1 ) . (3.16)

The value ( 2 p Q ( h ) -Q ( 2 h )) / ( 2 p -1 ) is a new approximation formula for M with an accuracy that is one order higher than the order of Q ( h ) .

# Example 3.7.2 (Forward difference of higher accuracy)

As an example, the forward-difference method is considered. The error in the forward-difference formula may be written as

f ′ ( x ) -Qf ( h ) = c 1 h + O ( h 2 ) , (3.17)

and the difference for 2 h equals

f ′ ( x ) -Qf ( 2 h ) = c 1 2 h + O ( h 2 ) . (3.18)

